---
layout: post
title: GeoBitcoin
---

<h1>{{ page.title }} / WORK IN PROGRESS!</h1>


<p class="meta">12 May 2014 - Cambridge, MA</p>
http://djq.me/2014/05/12/geobitcoin.html

One interesting consequence of a distributed transaction system is the there it is very difficult to apply any type of stabilization mechanisms to an economic currency. I believe this to be of fundamental importance as such policies can provide slower feedback systems to a system that responds rapidly to any fluctuation caused by change in investor and user sentiment, security breaches, or other general fluctuations. I believe that providing a mechanism for regulating such economic transactions would be beneficial in their widespread adaption, which I believe to be an inherently good thing.


However, one of the big challenges about how to regulate such a system, is how can one regulate an electonic currency? I propose one reasonably simple approach, mostly as a thought experiment*

To summasize, the key elements are:

* a method to identify the location of the user, providing an initial (untrusted) location
* a method of validating the untrusted location of the user, through a peer network
* the application of the appropriate monitary policy based on the location of the user

This also presupposes that we can split the world into 10km grids, that a global body that applies monetary policies to each grid.

1 The user receives several GPS signals on their phone. These signals are combined into one stamp of the location

2 Peers within a certain radius also have to transmit their timestamped GPS signals within a certain time period to validate the original transactor. The premise is that it would be challenging for multiple nearby peers to also mimic the unique signal received. The peers need to be distributed close enough such that a similar GPS type of signal can be received, but also far enough away such that the user could not travel to those distances.

3 Peers also have to send a message to the transactor. The latency from each peer to the transactor is then also used to assess the truthfullness of their location.

3 The bitcoin mining process is also used to compare the signal from the transactor and the peers, and assess if the transactor is providing a valid location. If they are, then the appropriate monitory policy is then baked into the transaction (either buying or selling).

Using this approach to verify the user's location means without any infrastructure change you are able to truthfully identify the users location. This could have many other benefits!


* thanks to zwarg and sze for their useful ideas while discussing this idea with them







